README.md, before:

# UBC Solar x Hack the Track
UBC Solar's submission for Hack the Track Presented by Toyota GR

# Development

Docker can be used to build and run the application for production,
but for development, it is easier to manually start the frontend and backend.

When running the application this way, Vite will update the frontend in real time each time a file modification is saved.

## Frontend

To run the React / Vite frontend:

1. Create a new terminal and enter the `frontend` directory: `cd frontend`
2. Start the development server: `npm run dev`
3. Access the web UI at http://localhost:5173/

## Backend

To run the FastAPI backend:

1. Create a new terminal and enter the `backend` directory: `cd backend`
2. Start the backend: `uv run uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000`
3. You can access the backend api directly at  http://localhost:8000/
4. Auto-generated FastAPI docs are available at http://localhost:8000/docs/

### Neural Network
* Using the provided datasets, we trained a deep recurrent neural network completely from scratch using PyTorch to predict the state evolution of a Toyota GR racecar given the driver’s input to the vehicle. 
* Our model achieved impressive accuracy, being able to correctly predict the position of any car (including cars it wasn’t trained on) within a few meters up to 30 seconds given an initial position and driver input.
* This model is then used to deliver insights on how the driver varying control inputs could improve race performance. Using our industry knowledge of how drivers think, we developed a list of potential variations a driver could undertake at the moment and we report if any variation would result in a significant improvement on race performance.


### REMOVE THIS LATER
* `cd backend/`
* `uv run ./telemetry/replayer/replayer.py --skip-prompt`


The page will automatically update when changes to the React frontend (e.g., `App.jsx`) are made.

Commit message:

Revise README for local development instructions
Updated README to improve clarity on local setup and usage.

README.md, after:

# UBC Solar x Hack the Track
UBC Solar's submission for Hack the Track Presented by Toyota GR

# Quick Start

## For Hackathon Judges
Our deployed app is available at the link provided in our submission.
Simply follow the link to view the app running with Barber Motorsports Park Race 1 data played on a loop

## Running Locally
Docker is required and used to run both the frontend and the backend of the app.

1. Clone the repository

`git clone https://github.com/UBC-Solar/hack_the_track.git`

2. Enter the project root

`cd hack_the_track`

3. Start the docker stack

Linux/MacOS: `sudo docker compose up`
Windows: `docker compose up` (after [installing docker](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/setup/install/windows-install/))

4. Access the web UI at http://localhost:5173/

# Development

## Frontend

To run the React / Vite frontend separately:

1. Create a new terminal and enter the `frontend` directory: `cd frontend`
2. Start the development server: `npm run dev`
3. Access the web UI at http://localhost:5173/

The remainind containers in the docker stack must still be running.


### Neural Network
* Using the provided datasets, we trained a deep recurrent neural network completely from scratch using PyTorch to predict the state evolution of a Toyota GR racecar given the driver’s input to the vehicle. 
* Our model achieved impressive accuracy, being able to correctly predict the position of any car (including cars it wasn’t trained on) within a few meters up to 30 seconds given an initial position and driver input.
* This model is then used to deliver insights on how the driver varying control inputs could improve race performance. Using our industry knowledge of how drivers think, we developed a list of potential variations a driver could undertake at the moment and we report if any variation would result in a significant improvement on race performance.
